oh here are four things they forgot to
tell you in driving school for me they
forgot to tell me where I'd parked my
car but that's another story most
drivers are convinced that if they know
all the rules of the road they'll be
ready for any situation that may occur
however besides these rules there are
others that are no less important and if
you don't follow them you may get
seriously hurt even in a minor accident
before you learn all the crucial details
hit that subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side number one adjust your seat
properly if the only thing you're
worried about when you sit behind that
wheel is your comfort then you'll
definitely want to pay attention to this
there absolutely is a correct way to sit
behind the wheel and it can be the
difference between safety and danger on
the road when you're in the driver's
seat your knees should be slightly bent
if you feel that you need to stretch
your leg to reach that gas pedal move
your seat forward however if you see
that your knees are bent too much and
it's uncomfortable to place your foot on
the pedal move the seat backward there
should be a gap between the seat and the
back of your knees that's about two
fingers wide besides when your legs are
in the proper position during driving
you'll avoid knee pain your seat should
be positioned in such a way that your
hips are at the same level as your knees
if you can't clearly see out of all the
windows or through the windshield raise
your seat if your car doesn't allow you
to change the height of your seat then
put a cushion on it this will help level
your hips with your needs
if you follow these recommendations
you'll find yourself in the right
position that doesn't put too much
pressure on your back on top of that
it's the least exhausting one during a
long road trip now let's get into the
nitty-gritty for example most people
tend to act on instinct when they get
into an accident almost everybody will
prop their hands against the steering
wheel and their feet against the floor
and pedals right before the crash and if
your arms and legs are straight like
this you can get a serious injury even
in a minor accident you should also be
mindful of how close or far away your
body is to the steering wheel and pedals
the back rest should be reclined at
about a 100 degree angle this is the
most comfortable position for your body
if you have to lift your shoulders up
off the backrest to turn the wheel
you've reclined your seat too much at
the same time if you have to hunched as
you're driving move the backrest back a
bit your seat is properly adjusted if
you can easily reach the steering wheel
and your elbows are slightly bent make
sure that your seat has lumbar support
this is a raised part at the bottom of
the backrest this support should be at
the same level as your waist if there's
no lumbar support in your car use a
rolled-up towel or a removable foam
support that can be bought separately
pay attention to the headrest as well
your head should be positioned right in
the center of it if the middle of the
headrest is lower or higher than your
head pull it up or push it down as
needed ideally the top of the headrest
should be aligned with the top of your
head and finally make sure your steering
wheel is in the right position the
bottom of the steering wheel should be
about a palms with away from the top of
your leg also try stretching your arm
out in front of you
if you can put your wrist on the top of
the steering wheel the distance is
correct the best and the only correct
way to hold the steering wheel is at
nine and three you know this is when you
imagine that your steering wheel is the
face of a clock put your left hand where
the nine would be on the clock and your
right hand goes on the three by placing
your hands this way you'll have the best
control over the steering wheel and thus
over your car
besides that always keep both hands on
the wheel when you're driving not only
is it safer but it also prevents you
from twisting your spine you see when
you drive using only one hand it can
result in serious back pain especially
if you drive frequently finally this
hand position keeps your hands and arms
out of the way if you're in an accident
and the airbag in the steering wheel is
deployed to check the brake pipes if
your car's brake system has defects
these signs can give the problem away
you hear screeching noises each time you
brake the brake pedal pulses up and down
this is only normal if your car's
anti-lock braking system or ABS is in
operation this system prevents the car
from skidding out of control your car
drifts sideways when you press the brake
pedal you notice some traces of brake
fluid leaks on the inner side of the
wheel but you don't need to wait until
you spot one of these alarming signs you
should constantly keep an eye on the
state of your brake pipes and brake pads
even the tiniest crack on a brake hose
can result in an accident because you
won't be able to stop the car to figure
out if your vehicle's brake pipes are in
good condition touch them if they're
hard and crack when you try to bend them
they certainly need replacing brake
hoses should be dry quite flexible and
without any stains or damp patches after
you replace the old brake pipes it's
crucial for your safety to bleed
your brakes before driving your car
three do not lift your whole foot off
the floor when you switch from one pedal
to another this rule is important since
it'll prevent the pedal from slipping
out under your foot on top of that when
you lift your foot off the floor
completely and move it to the right or
left it makes you a bit slower and less
efficient it might not seem like much
but even milliseconds play a huge role
in an emergency of course a lot of it
depends on the size of your foot the
smaller it is the trickier it'll be to
follow this rule in this case you can
use a method that works for everybody
switch between pedals by moving your
foot from heel to heel you should also
remember that your foot typically stays
on the heel when you position it over
the accelerator but when you move it
over to the brake pedal your heel may
not be able to touch the floor again it
all depends on the size of your foot and
the distance between the pedals in your
car as for your left foot don't move it
away from the footrest when it stays
there it helps support your pelvis and
back during your trip for wear your seat
belt properly first of all you shouldn't
slip your seat belt under your arm or
behind your back the top strap should
cross your chest and collarbone and the
lower strap should go across your hips
do not place it over your belly if you
get into a car accident the belt should
catch you on your pelvic bone not your
stomach if you notice that your seat
belt is twisted straighten it right away
both the lower and top part of the belt
should lie flat against your body if
your seat belt feels as if it's digging
into your neck or shoulder most cars
allow you to adjust the anchor that the
top strap runs into
[Music]
if the seatbelt is cutting you higher or
lower than your collarbone you can pull
it down or push it up accordingly if
your car seat belts aren't adjustable
you can always slide the seat further up
or back if nothing helps get a padded
belt cover they can be found in most
stores and finally always listen for a
clear click when you fasten the belt
give it a good tug each time just to be
sure now if you have any other extremely
important recommendations for drivers
leave them in the comment section below
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and hit that
subscribe button to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]